Fixes for the ambient/sidecar traffic blog (#13912)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/traffic-for-ambient-and-sidecar/index.md

In the architecture of modern microservices, communication and management among services is critical. To address the challenge, Istio emerged as a service mesh technology. It provides traffic control, security, and superior observation capabilities by utilizing the sidecar. In order to further improve the adaptability and flexibility of Istio, the Istio community began to explore a new mode - ambient mode. In this mode, Istio no longer relies on explicit sidecar injection, but achieves communication and mesh management among services through ztunnel and waypoint proxies. Ambient also brings a series of improvements, such as lower resource consumption, simpler deployment, and more flexible configuration options. When enabling ambient mode, we don't have to restart pods anymore which enables Istio to play a better role in various scenarios.

> There are many blogs, which can be found in [Reference Resources](#reference-resources) section of this blog, to introduce and analyze ambient mode in community and technology forums, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio ambient and sidecar modes. We will analyze the network traffic path between services in these two modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many blogs, which can be found in the [Reference Resources](#reference-resources) section of this blog, to introduce and analyze ambient mode in community and technology forums, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio ambient and sidecar modes. We will analyze the network traffic path between services in these two modes.
```

> There are many blogs, which can be found in [Reference Resources](#reference-resources) section of this blog, to introduce and analyze ambient mode in community and technology forums, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio ambient and sidecar modes. We will analyze the network traffic path between services in these two modes.

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of this sentence. A possible change might be something like:
```suggestion
There are many blogs, which can be found in [Reference Resources](#reference-resources) section of this blog, that introduce and analyze ambient, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio ambient and sidecar modes. We will analyze the network traffic path between services in these two modes.
```

> _Note 1: The following analysis is based on Istio 1.18.2, where ambient mode uses iptables for redirection._

Reviewer: If we are really removing note 2, then the 1 could be removed here, and maybe make it an info? section.

> _Note 2: The communications between sidecar and ztunnel/waypoint proxy uses `[HTTP Based Overlay Network (HBONE)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)`._

Reviewer: Although I see we also have the link below.

> _Note 2: The communications between sidecar and ztunnel/waypoint proxy uses `[HTTP Based Overlay Network (HBONE)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)`._

Author: It was below, but I removed it because it was failing the spell check. _Note's closing _ was being read from the link by our linter. So because it was below, it was simpler to just remove.

According to above diagram, the details of network traffic path is demonstrated as below:

> **(1) (2) (3)**  Request traffic of the `sleep` service is sent out from the `veth` of the `sleep` pod where it will be marked and forwarded to the `istioout` device in the node by following the iptables rules and route rules. The `istioout` device in the node A is a [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnel, and the other end of the tunnel is `pistioout`, which is inside the ztunnel pod on the same node.

Reviewer: Not sure if in or inside works better.
```suggestion
**(1) (2) (3)**  Request traffic of the `sleep` service is sent out from the `veth` of the `sleep` pod where it will be marked and forwarded to the `istioout` device in the node by following the iptables rules and route rules. The `istioout` device in node A is a [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnel, and the other end of the tunnel is `pistioout`, which is inside the ztunnel pod on the same node.
```

Reviewer: For step, #6, I'm wondering if changing `At last` to `Finally` makes sense.

> **(1) (2) (3) (4)** the `sleep` container sends a request to `httpbin`. The request is intercepted by iptables rules and directed to port `15001` on the sidecar in the `sleep` pod. Then, the sidecar handles the request and routes the traffic based on the configuration received from istiod (control plane). Next, the sidecar forwards the traffic to an IP address corresponding to the `httpbin` pod on node B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(1) (2) (3) (4)** the `sleep` container sends a request to `httpbin`. The request is intercepted by iptables rules and directed to port `15001` on the sidecar in the `sleep` pod. Then, the sidecar handles the request and routes the traffic based on the configuration received from istiod (control plane) forwarding the traffic to an IP address corresponding to the `httpbin` pod on node B.
```

> **(5) (6)**  After the request is sent to the device pair (`veth httpbin <-> eth0 inside httpbin pod`), the request is intercepted and forwarded using the iptables and route rules to the `istioin` device on the node B where `httpbin` pod is running by following its iptables and route rules. The `istioin` device on node B and the `pistion` device inside the ztunnel pod on the same node are connected by a [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(5) (6)**  After the request is sent to the device pair (`veth httpbin <-> eth0 inside httpbin pod`), the request is intercepted and forwarded using the iptables and route rules to the `istioin` device on node B where `httpbin` pod is running by following its iptables and route rules. The `istioin` device on node B and the `pistion` device inside the ztunnel pod on the same node are connected by a [Geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html) tunnel.
```

**(7) (8)** After the request enters the `pistioin` device of the ztunnel pod, the iptables rules in the ztunnel pod intercept and redirect the traffic through port 15008 on the ztunnel proxy running inside the pod.

> **(9)** The traffic getting into the port 15008 would be considered as a inbound request, then ztunnel will forward the request to the `httpbin` pod in the same node B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(9)** The traffic getting into the port 15008 would be considered as a inbound request, and the ztunnel will then forward the request to the `httpbin` pod in the same node B.
```

### Network traffic path analysis of sidecar mode `sleep` to ambient mode `httpbin` via waypoint proxy

> Comparing with the top part of the diagram, the bottom part inserts a waypoint proxy in the path between `sleep`, ztunnel and `httpbin` pods. The Istio control plane has all information of service and configuration of the service mesh. When `helloworld` pod is deployed with a waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration of `helloworld` service received by sidecar of `sleep` pod will be changed to the type of `envoy_internal_address`. This causes that the request traffic going through the sidecar to be forwarded to port 15008 of the waypoint proxy on node C via the [HTTP Based Overlay Network (HBONE)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit) protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparing with the top part of the diagram, the bottom part inserts a waypoint proxy in the path between the `sleep`, ztunnel and `httpbin` pods. The Istio control plane has all the service information and configuration of the service mesh. When the `helloworld` pod is deployed with a waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration of `helloworld` service received by the `sleep` pod sidecar will be changed to the type of `envoy_internal_address`. This causes the request traffic going through the sidecar to be forwarded to port 15008 of the waypoint proxy on node C via the [HTTP Based Overlay Network (HBONE)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit) protocol.
```

> Waypoint proxy is an instance of the Envoy proxy and forwards the request to the `helloworld` pod based on the routing configuration received from the control plane. Once traffic reaches the `veth` on node D, it follows the same path as the previous scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waypoint proxy is an instance of Envoy proxy and forwards the request to the `helloworld` pod based on the routing configuration received from the control plane. Once traffic reaches the `veth` on node D, it follows the same path as the previous scenario.
```
